---
layout: post
title: Week 4 
---

## First Contributions 

There's is quite a bit to talk about this week. Hopefully, this'll still make for an entertaining read. 

### Git Activity 

We started working with git in class today, through a simple, albeit, frustrating example. Our jobs were to push different aspects of a project into one repo, maintained by multiple people. It was useful in sharpening my Git skills, but it wasn't anything that required too much effort. I had used Git before in my 135 and 235 classes, and so I had a similar workflow imprinted already. What I did learn was how to deal with merge conflicts. You have to be patient and perceptive, to make the necessary changes so that your code can be merged properly. All in all, it was a fun exercise that reaffirmed my inklings in Git. I hope to engage in more advanced exercises using branches as I'm not used to that particular workflow. 


### Reading Reactions 

I had time to read all three readings, but probably the most eye-opening one I read was _[A Beginner's Very Bumpy Journey Through the World of Open Source](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/a-beginners-very-bumpy-journey-through-the-world-of-open-source-4d108d540b39/)_ There are a few reasons why: firstly, I had read this exact a few years prior and secondly, the shift in perspective I had reading it a second time was a powerful one. 

I had read the article back in 2017, because I was looking for guides on how to get into open source projects. I was in a similar situation where, I felt that I couldn't penetrate into making code contributions and was instead limited to editing documentation. I thought I simply wasn't skilled enough to contribute. Reading this article again changed my perspective on open source completely. I've recently learned about the concept of "directness" or as I like to call it **transferability**. This is essentially the measure of practicality of a technique or theory. To put it simply, in order to become very skilled in a particular area, you need to look for the practicality in theory. In this article, Shubheksha states many times that the best thing to do when it comes to getting better at open source contribution is to **just start**. In other words, I don't need to learn everything under the sun about open source and proper programming, before I contribute; I should be learning these things **by contributing**. It's a very powerful insight, and one awakened after reading this article for the second time. 

### Weekly Contributions 

My brilliant powers of memory failed me last week and I forgot to list my contributions last week (Well part of that is because I didn't make any contributions last week. Oops!). In any case, this week I made two contributions: one to OpenStreetMap and one to a fellow classmate's blog. For my OpenStreetMap contribution I noticed that my neighborhood had a lot of nearby retail information missing. My goal is to add in these stores by the end of the semester and populate my area with information. For this week, I added information about a nearby grocery store that has been in the area for nearly a decade now. As for other the contribution, I was reading another blog and came across a typo, so I made an issue, forked the repo, fixed the typo, pushed it to the origin and made a pull request. It has still yet to be accepted, but hopefully, when the author wakes up it'll be accepted. This workflow will take some getting used to, since there are three copies of the project you have to be aware of. I'm lucky that we are not making constant, sweeping changes to our repos and that my edits are small, otherwise I'm sure that I would have had to deal with the annoyances of resolving merge conflicts. I need more practice with the branch workflow and hopefully, I'll get some more throughout the rest of the course.    

