---
layout: post
title: Week 6 
---

## Marking Territory

Not exactly a diary entry, I just felt it was better organized this way. We have quite a number of things to talk about this week. I'll cut the nuance and get straight into the action. 

### Project Explorations

After reading both readings for this week, I have a rough sketch of what a good open source project looks like. In my pursuit for both Hacktoberfest and for this class, I have outlined three different projects that I've investigated. 

#### [Vim](https://github.com/vim/vim) 

One of the key things I saw mentioned in the Github contribution guide is a quote by **@gaearon** who says that __you’ll learn a lot from taking a single project you actively use, “watching” it on GitHub and reading every issue and PR.__ I thought this was solid advice, so I started watching a few of my favorite projects including firefox, VLC and Vim. As I sat on this nugget of advice, I wanted to see if I could take a step further and see if Vim, my text editor of choice, could be a viable project to contribute to. Vim is open source, using a variant of the GPL license and has a very active developer community. However, upon analyzing the project deeper, I realized that the project is not one that would be appropriate. I'm not one to shy away from a challenge, but contributing feature level contributions to the Vim repository isn't likely to happen within the scope of this class. The aspect of scope is one that must be wisely considered. A lot of the active issues I've seen, I could not understand. While there were the typical documentation issues, I doubt I would be able to contribute beyond this. For that reason, I've marked Vim as a no-go. 
#### [SenseNet](https://github.com/SenseNet)

This project is a bit obscure but I discovered this as part of Hacktoberfest. They are giving away a free t-shirt to anyone making a pull request to any one of their repositories. I contributed to the [sn-client](https://github.com/SenseNet/sn-client) repository. The project is an open source enterprise content management platform which is a complicated way of saying it's an open source platform for managing organizational resources (documents) of a business. My contribution consisted of updating the dependencies of the packages by updating the json files with the specified changes. The project is open source, with an MIT license. However, the biggest problem I've found with this project is the lack of activity and contributors. There is certainly a level of activity, but compared to more well known projects, it's not as vibrant. This has its pros and cons. On one hand, if there aren't active contributors, it makes it hard for a beginner to learn from past examples. But on the other hand, the maintainers of the project are more likely to respond to any questions, and you are more likely to make a good impact on the project. I haven't crossed this project off my list just yet. My pull request was met with a very friendly response, and the maintainer of the project was kind enough to guide me through my mistakes patiently. It was an experience truly emblematic of real open source. 

#### [Twilio Labs](https://github.com/twilio-labs)

This is another project that is participating in Hacktoberfest. Traditionally, Twilio has always been a big component of the organization behind Hacktoberfest. This year they're offering a sticker-pack and a pair of socks if two or more pull requests are merged into master. For this project, I contributed a pixel to their open-pixel-art [repository](https://github.com/twilio-labs/open-pixel-art). It can hardly be considered a contribution, but it was a chance to test out the workflow we went over in class. I also managed to pick up an interesting way to form my commit messages. Twilio follows the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0-beta.4/) specification for their commits. Although it's still in beta, it's a very pragmatic way to write commit messages and from here on out, I'll be following the specification to the best of my ability. As for this project, it could be the one I'm looking for. It has the right mix of activity, community and environment that I'm looking for. It has a vibrant community with many maintainers for each repository. Some of the issues would be challenging but not impossible for someone like me to complete. I obviously need to do a bit more research, but I think this may be a good project to explore for the scope of this class.  

### Thoughts on Karen Sandler Talk
Now to shift gears completely, I felt that the talk by Karen Sandler was, without a doubt, insightful. This particular niche of software development is earmarked by its entanglement with law, and I found it useful to hear how Karen views software through the lenses of law. We truly are living in a world where technology has invaded every facet of life, and ironically, sometimes even artificially sustaining human life. As artificial intelligence becomes more prevalent, I foresee no shortage of legal troubles and ethical questions. I'm very glad I took this class, if not for the sole fact of hearing experts in their field come to our humble classroom to share their models of their work. 

### Weekly Contributions 

I didn't make too many contributions this week. I made a pull request for Sophia's blog after fixing a few typos in her 4th blog post. I also made a contribution to OpenStreetMap by adding my local library to the map. Other than that, the other two contributions I made, I've already talked about above. Hopefully, next week I'll be able to do a lot more contributions. Till next week.
