---
layout: post
title: Week 12 
---
## Open Source Democracy 
> Where you see wrong or inequality or injustice, speak out, because this is your country. This is your democracy. Make it. Protect it. Pass it on. _-Thurgood Marshall_

## Thoughts on Election Fraud Article 
As we reach the end of the semester, it seems we are reading more articles about open source and how its philosophy may be used to solve larger problems. Election fraud is a topic that has been mentioned before in class, and its relevancy is especially pertinent today. What I enjoyed about the article was the depth of its solution. It talked realistically about the three different parts of election voting software today: the election administration system, the frontend voting ballot system and the bridge that connects these two systems. I initially found the idea that we were using decade-old voter technology humorous, and then I found it frightening. While I don't think have legacy systems is a big problem, (plenty of software monoliths are built upon the toil of past developers) I do think it is a big problem when the systems are not robust. I'm also horrified that the election software is built on Windows, which is notorious for their bugs, backholes and flaws (need I mention the god-awful days of Vista?). After reading the article, it makes no sense why these systems were not built with open source in mind, from the beginning.I also recognize the massive amount of red tape that OSET will have to go through in order to make this project a reality. To paraphrase the last few paragraphs of the article, OSET will have to develop a non-black box model of current voter software, develop new open data standards, create a set of guidlines and a certification board, replace the contracts, governments have with third-party software vendors, and develop a new license for their software. I don't know if we'll see this technology in time for the next presidential election, but I am excited for the progress that OSET is making. I'm also thankful that the author included some information on how to get involved in the project, which is something I'm currently looking into. 

## OpenCV Updates 
It is hard making progress on this project but I am trying my best. So far, I have made two pull requests: one of them has been [rejected](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/15898) and [another one](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16006) I am awaiting a response. The first pull request was a documentation change, but it was rejected because the maintainer did not agree with me including hard-coded paths. This was understandable but gave me no recourse in trying to solve the probelm in an alternative way. The second pull request was a typo fix in another documentation file. This file was about Calib3D, a function that does some camera calibration when using OpenCV's live camera functionality. 

The [current issue](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/13822) I am working on is adding a installation guide for MacOS. The maintainer wants a guide for building the project from source on Macs. I don't have a mac computer, but I'm borrowing one from a friend and using it to write up the installation guide. I recognize that I am not making as much progress as I should be making, but with this break in my hand, I'm hoping to get through all of the issues I mentioned in my last post. Most of these issues are documentation oriented, but I'm hoping to finish the semester with a code contribution with this [issue](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/12343). 

## Wikipedia Edits 
It's never a dull experience editing wikipedia articles. For this week, I did not one, but two wikipedia edits. I only have to make one more wikipedia edit to finish my semester quota of wikipedia articles (5). The wikipedia edits were both for the same page: [Ozone Park](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ozone_Park,_Queens), which is where I live. The first edit was adding a hyperlink to another wikipedia page. Apparently John Gotti, a famous mob boss, operated around the area where I live. Secondly, I removed Khan's Academy from a list of private schools on the page. Khan's Academy is a free online website where you can learn a number of various topics. It's not however, a private school that is local to Ozone Park. There is a local tutoring center called "Khan's Tutorial" which may be what the editor meant, but even still, it's not a private school. I find it fun to edit wikipedia pages, espcially because I'm beginning to find people in my community who are active contributors to wikipedia. 
