
---
layout: post
title: Week 14 
---
## The End 
> In the end, it's not the years in your life that count. It's the life in your years. - _Abraham Lincoln_

## Reflections 

As the semster comes with a close, it becomes necessary to measure the impact a certain class has had on my life. What skills did I learn? What knowledge did I gain? How useful are both of these things after the semester? Equivocably, this class has given new life into my interest in CS. One does not have many opportunities to take real-world, pragmatically-instructed classes that are also mildly interesting. I came into this class expecting an easy elective credit, and I'm walking away with shopping bags full of insights. 

My goal in this class was to understand the underlying philosophy of open source software and become more familiar with something I was not previously familiar with. I would say that I have accomplished this goal. I learned about licenses, contributing, git, bash/shell, business and even some cs philosophy. This course exceeded my expectations. This course is unlike many other CS classes, where there is a focus on theory and not enough on practical application. We learn the inner-workings of algorithms but not when it is appropriate to use them in real problems. Not only did I learn about open source topics, by doing these blogs and making contributions, I took what I learned in class and applied it, days later. The contributions I have made are _real_, they are not homework or a trivial assignment.  

Before, I said that contributing to open source was like an arrow of discomfort. As you move closer to your first contribution, the discomfort increases sharply. I also said that I would be contributing to documentation and projects like Vim. I know now, that my method of evaluating projects was completely wrong, and I am happy that I ended up with OpenCV. 
 
Reflections are always composed with a steady pen and a solemn heart. It's with a solemn heart that I write these final words. 13 weeks ago, I said that I hope to be viscerally knowledgable in Open Source by the end of the semester. More importantly however, I also said that having fun in this class is the ultimate objective. I've enjoyed every second in the class, and I'm grateful that I had this opportunity. Thank you. 
