---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---
## Wikipedia That
> Wikipedia is the best thing ever. Anyone in the world can write anything they want about any subject. So you know you are getting the best possible information. - __Michael Scott__

** Professor, can you please look at Blog 6? I emailed you about an issue with the blog entry not rendering properly some time ago, and I don't believe the grade has been rectified yet. I'd be grateful if you could take one more look at it. **


This week I read through both [Contributing to Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contributing_to_Wikipedia#Getting_started) and [A Primer for Newcomers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:A_primer_for_newcomers) and found it to be an informative way to learn about contributing to Wikipedia. I've gone through this guide once before, when I made some edits on Wikipedia years ago. One of the difficulties in editing Wikipedia pages in my experience has been finding interesting and relevant pages to work on. One method is to pick any random page and find ways to update the validity of information on the page. Sometimes there are news articles that can be added to the wikipedia page to make it more up-to-date. Another thing I used to do is use the [stubs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Stubs) page to find potential articles I could contribute to. Wikipedia is not unlike OpenStreetMap, in that, you can oftentimes provide unique insight/information for pages or places that you are personally familiar with. This, I believe is key to contributing to Wikipedia, and as a general rule; open source. 

## Thoughts on "Makers and Takers" by Dries Buytaert 
This was a highly interesting article, quite possibly the most interesting reading I've read thus far. Using a combination of academic research and real case examples, Dries brings a new light onto the management of open source projects. My biggest problem with the article was due in part to the exposition Dries provides for Model 2: Privatization. To summarize, Dries explains that the buzzing ecosystem between Makers and Takers is central to the longevity of an open source project. As a result, he brings forth three new models: self-governance, privatization and centralization. The issue I see with privatization is that the examples that Dries brings up are simply not applicable to the vast majority of open source projects. Both FireFox and Wordpress.com are well established software products that operate at a magnitude higher than most other projects. In other words, my problem lies in the fact that while it's a management model, it's applicable in rare cases of projects which are already recognized by the industry as standard. These projects are the exception, not the rule. 

I also noticed an interesting parallel between Dries and Brooks (Of __Mythical Man-Month Fame__). Dries says that: 
> As an Open Source project grows, contribution becomes more complex and cooperation more difficult: it becomes harder to communicate, build trust, agree on how to cooperate, and suppress self-serving behaviors.

This is not only true for open source projects, but it's true of any software project involving multiple contributors. Brooks Law is predicated on his idea that the more communication paths you have between developers of a project, the longer the project takes to release. We can also see Dries hinting at that idea here, where the bigger the project gets, the more difficult it becomes to maintain communication, thereby causing a project to release later. 

## Progress on OpenCV 
I have been working on this [issue](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/10645) and will make a [pull request](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/15898) soon. (Updated blog to add link). I started reading through the [documentation](https://dri.es/balancing-makers-and-takers-to-scale-and-sustain-open-source) in question a few days ago. I then tried installing OpenCV using CMake and tried to recreate the issue. The fix suggested by one of the commenters was to set a hardcoded filepath into the CMakeList file. My plan is to make a pull request adding this comment into the documentation. (Update: pull request was rejected, currently working on fixing the issue, the maintainer seem a tad unfriendly). 

## Contributions
This week, I updated two other blogs as I promised last week. In both cases there were typos. For Sophia's blog, I fixed a typo regarding the spelling of OpenStreetMap in her contributions page. For Kiara's blog, there were a few typos and missing punctuation marks for her 9th blog entry. I had hoped to make a pull request for my project, but I'll have to wait a bit more to make a meaningful contribution.  
