---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---
## Cathedral and the Bazaar
> Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite (and reuse).

There were many concepts in the Eric Raymond's essay that I found interesting to learn about. The first one I'd like to discuss is one of the first aphorisms that Raymond brings up:
> Every good work of software starts by a scratching a developer's personal itch

I loved this one because of how true it is. Oftentimes, I find myself thinking of new projects ideas based on an annoyance in my life. For instance, I use Gmail as my main email client (I probably shouldn't knowing the aggregious violation of my privacy and data) in particular, I use the HTML version of Gmail instead of the new verson because I like the simplistic design and fast loading times. Although HTML Gmail is great, it is (understandably) missing a lot of useful features that the regular version of Gmail has. One of my project ideas was to build a [TamperMonkey](https://www.tampermonkey.net/) library that serve to augment newer features onto HTML Gmail. This is an ongoing project but I immediately thought of this idea as I was reading that section of Raymond's essay. 

The second concept I enjoyed reading about was Linus' Law : 
> Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow 

When I read this, I suddenly felt that pieces of Raymond's argument were being put into place and it all started to make sense. The main flaw of any software project is its bugs. No matter how good your team is, you will always have bugs in your projects. Humans are fallible creatures and it's obvious that we would make mistakes, especially when dealing with higher-order logic. When you consider this, it makes perfect sense why it is better to have more people onto a project than less. I had previously thought that the more people you have, the more bugs you would have in your code. This ties into the next concept that I found interesting. 

> Adding more programmers to a late project makes it later (Fred Brooks, Mythican Man-Month)

Having read the Mythical Man-Month a few years prior, it was interesting to see Brooks pop up in this essay. After reading Brooks, I always believed that the more programmers you had, the longer the project would take. As you add more programmers, the amount of time it takes for those new programmers to get accustomed to the code base increases. In addition as Raymond points out, the more programmers you have in a project, the more bugs you have in the code base. Bugs arise as a result of differences between humans and their reasoning. Brooks says that bugs form as a result of communication paths between developers. As you add more programmers, these communication paths increase exponentially. The Bazaar system of open source, according to Raymond, does not fall victim to this principle. Since people are working on issues in parallel and since communication paths are limited between a select few, work can be accomplished in exponential time with only a linear amount of communication paths. 

I found these three principles to be extremely interesting since it built upon something that I read a long time ago. Some of the other aphorims in the essay are also good guidelines in building successful personal projects and correctly utilizing open source to build great software projects. 

## Tackling OpenCV Issues 
The project I am working on is [OpenCV](https://github.com/opencv/opencv). I chose this project because I used the project before and I'm interested in computer vision. In terms of selecting an issue, I've been filtering issues based on different labels. One of the labels that I'm using to filter is [good-first-issue](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/labels/good%20first%20issue), which is a good issue for any first time contributors (i.e me). Since there is some pressure to start with documentation edits, I plan to work on this [issue](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/10645) first. The OP wants a change in the installation guide to reflect an issue he is having with some dependencies. According to one of the replies, the docummentation is outdated, so this is probably a good way to get my feet wet into the project. I have successfuly installed and set up the development environment for OpenCV on my machine. My next task is to figure out how the CMake file works and where in the documentation this error is. I'll make a pull request once I've made these changes. 

## Contributions
The month of October is over and that means Hacktoberfest is over. Over the course of the month, I made 8 pull requests to 4 different projects. I won two t-shirts and a pair of socks. 

During this week, I added 8 additions to OpenStreetMap. Some of the contributions included information about nearby stores, while other contributions included information on local businesses. I've included information about a law office, a deli, a 99 Cent store, a laundromat and a local tavern. Next week, I plan on going through some other blogs and fixing typos. I also hope to have an OpenCV contribution on my contributions page as well.  
