---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---
## OpenCV Initiation

I decided to work on OpenCV for this course. [OpenCV](https://github.com/opencv/opencv) is a library of image processing functions, that allow you to do some really cool things, including but not limited to computer vision. I did a cursory glance at the issues and some of the pull requests to get an idea of active the project is. I found the project to be more active than I anticipated. I've also used OpenCV in the past for a self-driving RC car project I made a few years ago. As someone who's interested in computer vision, I thought this was the perfect project for me. 

I began to set up the project by installing it on my Linux machine. The [installation process](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/blob/master/doc/py_tutorials/py_setup/py_setup_in_ubuntu/py_setup_in_ubuntu.markdown) was simple enough. I only had to use ``` sudo apt-get install python-opencv ``` to get the project up and running. I did this only to be able to experiment with the library and understand some of the other functions that I didn't use before. The installation guide suggests that the pre-built binary is usually not the latest version. Of course, as someone who wants to contribute to the project, ir's important to be up to date with the project. My next step is to build it from source, which requires some additional steps using CMake. I have not tried this yet, but will do so within the next few days, since this can be an initial headache.  

I also looked at issues from the OpenCV repository. Some of the issues are not easy, in fact, I would go as far as to say that most of them are not easy. But as I mentioned in previous posts, the point of this course should be to experience "real" open source. I took this class in order to challenge myself. I also did find a few issues that were simple enough, even for me, and these were requested fixes for code, not documentaton. I'm looking forward to seeing what I can accomplish with this project in in a semester. 

## Bill Reyner Talk 
The talk by Bill Reyner was an interesting contrast to Sandler's talk. I suppose this was the point. While Karen talked somewhat about the benefits of GPL, Reyner talked about how for companies it was a big no-no. His perspectives on how corporations deal with open source were insightful to say the least. As a prospective software engineer, I imagine that if we are fortunate enough to work in companies with open source programs, we would be dealing with the same perspectives. The perspectives I am speaking of are the outlooks and opinions of open source by corporations. Corporations want to reduce risk as much as possible and so they may see open source as something risky. Although Reyner and his efforts at FactSet are proof that if you can do open source right, it can actually reduce risk. I loved his talk and hopefully he continues to gives talks to future Hunter students. 

## Contributions
I've neglected to update my contributions for this week, but I will do so as soon as possible. I finished Twilio's Hacktoberfest [Challenge](https://www.twilio.com/blog/ahoy-hacktoberfest-2019), and won myself a pair of socks. I contributed a pixel to their Open Pixel Art project, which I mentioned in a previous post, and I translated some documentation in German (I had help from a generous friend). My plan is to contribute to OpenStreetMap this week as well as try to resolve an issue on OpenCV. Until next week! 
