---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---
## An Attempt at _Pragmatic Idealism_  

> [Every decision a person makes stems from the person's values and goals.](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/pragmatic.en.html) 

A quick disclaimer before we begin; these are the musings of an outsider, ill informed in FOSS and OSS. I must admit that my knowledge in OSS is lacking. I don't use open source software and I haven't contributed to any open source projects. From an outsider's perspective FOSS is the soft-dev equivalent of being a vegan. While there are certain benefits to both industry and society, FOSS seems largely a social movement predicated on morality. This is currently my stance on FOSS.

Yet in life, there are too few opportunities at hand that allow us to change our preconceptions. I saw this course as one such opportunity. My goal in this course is to become knowledgeable in most aspects of OSS, including its underlying philosophy. I am taking this course on a matter of principle: that I should strive to learn the rudiments of subjects I have little domain over. OSS of course is no exception to this rule. This is what Stallman defines as idealism: pursuing a goal out of principle. 

 Idealism without pragmatism leads to unbridled failure. Stallman defines pragmatism as a "_method that works to achieve the goal_." The best part about this course is its pragmatic nature. We will be getting our proveribal hands dirty by contributing to open source projects. We'll be working with each other and commenting on each other's blogs. It's my hope that these parts of the course will provide the sufficient pragmatic experience to become viscerally knowledgeable in OSS. I suppose it goes without saying that I hope to have fun and enjoy my time in this course. After all, why pursue anything if you're not deeply enjoying it? I look forward to what this course has in store and who knows, maybe I'll even become a vegan by the end. 
