---
layout: post
title: Week 11 
---
## Business and Open Source 

> Unlike a company that could spend a million dollars in two years and fail and there's nothing really to show for it, if you spend a million dollars on open source, you probably have something amazing that other people can build on. - _Matt Mullenweg (Developer of Wordpress)_

## Thoughts on Kevin Fleming's Talk 
I found Fleming's talk to be both a fantastic recruiting pitch and an informative lesson on how businesses can correctly use open source to power their software. One of the biggest differences I found between Fleming's talk and Reyner's talk is the scale at which both operate. For FactSet, it's apparent that they are just starting to get their feet wet in open source. With Bloomberg, I got the impression that open source is something that is deeply important to their operations. I found this both in how they interact with open source and in how they give back to open source. Bloomberg gives a lot back to the open source community with both capital and intellectual capital. They encourage their engineers to work on open source projects to meet their volunteering quotas. One of the biggest indicators of the difference in scale between the two companies is the fact that Bloomberg frequently asks maintainers of open source projects to come in and lead a workshop on the project. FactSet is not at this level with open source (yet).  

## Thoughts on Open Firmware 
After reading both articles, I'm shocked that there is an open hardware/firmware movement and even more shocked that there is not as much attention on it compared to open software. (I suppose this was the intent of both articles). Some of the practices by companies like Intel, bricking the device if certain key signatures are not recognized are a cheap measure to ensure a false sense of security. If taking this class has taught me anything it's that our projects are more robust when we are able to contribute to them together, in an efficient way. I'm happy to see that there are people that are pushing the envelope forward with open firmware. I should consider figuring out a way to install coreboot on my machine. 

## OpenCV Work 
Contributing to OpenCV is harder than I initially expected. When I first analyzed the project, I thought it was an open and welcoming community, perfect for someone like me to start with. My first [pull request](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/15898) to the project was rejected because it wasn't good enough. Right now I am currently trying to find another issue to work on. Of the ones I've found, the following may be good candidates: 
1. [Documentation Deprecated](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/15302)
2. [Incomplete Python BRIEF Example](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/14093)
3. [MacOS Installation Guide](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/13822)
4. [solveLP() Refactor](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/12343) 

The first three are documentation fixes while the last issue calls for a refactor of a function that operates on matrices. As far as timeline, I've managed to identify these 4 issues, which I hope to chronicle before the class ends. 

For the first documentation issue, I've first verified that the issue still exists in the documentation. My next step was to download and configure [Doxygen](https://docs.opencv.org/master/d4/db1/tutorial_documentation.html) a "documentation generation system" that OpenCV uses for their documentation. In order to make proper edits to the documentation I want to be able to run doxygen locally on my machine. The final thing I did was identify the outdated parts of the documentation that the OP mentioned in his post. I'm currently working on removing these parts and making a pull request next week. 

## Wikipedia Contributions 
I managed to quickly fix a few errors in my neighborhood wikipedia page: [Ozone Park](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ozone_Park,_Queens). The first one was adding a hyperlink to a nearby high school. The second edit was adding a citation to a famous event that happened at the Aqueduct Racetrack, wherein the Pope came to visit New York and Queens. Both edits were quick, easy and fun to do. I'll be making a lots more edits in the future. 
