---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---
## Debugging Misconceptions

> Companies have been trying to figure out what it is that makes open source work. [- Brian Behlendorf](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brian_Behlendorf)

To be quite frank, I have also been attempting to figure out the secret key to open source's resilient nature. I discovered a number of misconceptions that have now been rightfully corrected. First and foremost, I have always wondered how RedHat and other companies have been able to profit off of software that is open the public. I've realized now that even if the software is free, not everyone is interested in learning how to use it for themselves. As a result, companies can often release open software and still survive by offering a more premium experience for businesses. 

Another misconception I had was about the definition of open source. I didn't realize that truly anyone who can understand the source code could utilize it. In other words, you don't have to be a programmer. This may seem like common sense at first glance, but it begs the question: how can you use the source code if you can't understand it? That's the equivalent of trying to write an essay on a book, while being iliterate. However, programming and code has become so widespread that you don't have to necessarily be a full-blown software engineer to be able toprogram. 

These are the two main misconceptions that I had corrected upon reading the article. I apologize if my blog for this week is not as eloquent as previous entries. The lack of time does marvelously dreadful things to quality. 
