---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---
## Search for the White Whale

Our task for this week was to describe the project evaluation that we did for this week. I chose to review the Docker Community Edition repository. I've always heard about Docker and containers, and so I was interested in learning more about what it was. I was suprised to learn that it was written in Go, and that it has a fairly modular design. It's very configurable, which I suppose is the point, if you want to build a framework for building and maintaining containers. 

After reviewing the project, I don't think this would be a good fit for me. While I am interested in the project and plan to use it in the future, the lack of active community is a enough cause not to contribute. There aren't many contributors, pull requests and maintainers. Although it's the community edition, I fail to see the "community" aspect of the project. 

The hardest task was answering the questions regarding issues. For some curious reason, Docker CE does not have any issues. I don't know if this is because they disabled issues, or if this is a problem on my side. As the workflows in our class are centered around issues, I don't know if this would be a good repo. For the questions regarding issues, I've tried to explain that there are no issues in the repo, hopefully it's clear. 

The easiest task by far was answering questions about the code. The code is primarily Go and the project is separated into components. I attempted to read the code, but I could not very easily understand it. Go is not a language I'm familiar with despite its growing popularity. This is probably another reason why it wouldn't be a good project to contribute to. 

All in all, although I admire Docker, I don't think it would a good project for me to contribute to. The community is not as active, issues are disabled and the code is written in Go. My search continues. 

## Contributions
No contributions for this week. I haven't had a lot of time to contribute to projects because I've been studying for my midterms. More contributions in the weeks to come, I promise. I have a few more contributions to add into OpenStreetMap. 
