---
layout: post
title: Week 5 
---

## A Survey of the Land

There's not too much to discuss this week, I've been extrememly busy with some of my other classes. Next week has lots of readings, so look forward to a more comprehensive post. 

### Project Explorations

The Github contribution guide is constructed very pragmatically. Each section is designed to draw the new user in and charge them to action. Section 4 contained some neat links to some beginner-friendly project exploration pages. I glanced at a few pages to get a lay of the land. I want to avoid as much as possible, docummentation issues and contributions. Although my initial musings in earlier posts suggested otherwise, I now believe that there is little point in pursuing the lowest hanging fruit. The reason I chanced upon this class was to viscerally change my preconceptions on a niche of Computer Science that I knew I had dead-wrong. If I don't try aiming for real, feature level contributions to projects, I'll have cheapened my cause and blunted my growth. I realize the loftiness of the goal, but this loftiness is why I enrolled in the first place. I hope to be able to use the Github Explore page as well as CodeTriage to find suitable projects. I find their UI to be intuitive and clean (although Github's explore page is currently dominated by cheap, "add your name to the README" Hacktoberfest repos).  

### Weekly Contributions 

I didn't make any contributions save for one or two pull requests I've done for Hacktoberfest. These changes haven't been merged yet, so I have not taken the liberty to include them into the contributions page. My goal for Hacktoberfest is to create as many contributions as possible. I'm being rewarded for making 5 pull requests, I might as well do some more pull requests for the sake of open source. I'll update future blog posts with more details specific to Hacktoberfest contributions. I think it is more important to talk about personal contributions to other people's blogs and OpenStreetMap, both of which I have been neglecting to make habitual contributions to. The follies of today will be disarmed by promises of tomorrow. Till next week! 

