---
layout: post
title: Week 13 
---
## Business & Open Source 
> Companies have been trying to figure out what it is that makes open source work. -_Brian Behlendorf_

## Thoughts on Tom Callaway's Blog Post
Tom Callaway's article on the many different business models of open source software was an interesting one to read. Many of the models, I already knew about, either osmotically through in-class discussions/lessons or through other articles about the topic. Peace of Mind and FUD are two new models that I had not encountered before and so I'm thankful Callaway included these in his list. 

Callaway makes a convincing argument for why open-core software models make very little sense as a long-term business model. He calls it "half-pregnant" and a model that "minimizes risk and reward". It doesn't make much to understand why: a company interested in open source will want to deal with a project that is completely open source, rather than one that is only open-core. This is the line of logic that Callaway follows, and I'll admit it had me convinced. Until, I remembered that many companies do not really give back to the open source communities that they take code from. Harkening back to the Makers and Takers article, there are more takers than makers. As a result, we have an inherent model of software scarcity.

While I see Callaway's point about proprietary software and its harm in creating long-lasting relationships with companies, there are not many other ways for open source projects and companies to remain competitve. As a open source project, companies care less about open-sourcness and more about whether or not a software project or framework can solve their specialized problem. In other words, the greatest value open source companies can provide is great code and great support for that code. As such, I see proprietary software a necessary evil to sustain the vast amount of smaller to medium sized open source software companies. As someone from RedHat, I believe Callaway speaks for the exception and not the rule.   

## Thoughts on 8 Advantages of Open Source 
The article perfectly encapsulates 8 reasons why everyone in the industry should be using open source software. At this point in the class, open source seems like such a no-brainer that I'm astonished on how many people are not aware of the glacier of open source software that is out there. I will say that the 6th point seems to be a bit of a stretch. 

Point 6 is open source attracts better talent. As I mentioned previously, many of my peers (not in my open source class) are unaware of how powerful open source really is. They are not familiar with contributing, licensing, the different communities or even that the software frameworks that they use on a day-to-day basis are open source. From my limited knowledge, open source development is not really taught widely in college. It's something you pick up from someone else or on your own. The vast amouunt of open source contributors and maintainers are self-taught. The assumption is that people who develop open source or know about open source development are better talent than those who don't. I don't necessarily think this is true. I may be completely wrong but, I think you can be someone who is the former but lack the abillity to work well on the job.  

## My Future with Open Source 
I would definitely want to work with a company that is only working with open source. In fact, it doesn't matter which company I end up working in, I will make sure to champion the open source cause and try to adopt open source practices. It seems clearly apparent to me that open source _is_ the future and that _it_ is the foundation of all great software. As a programmer, my task is to always aim for creating **great** software. 

My dream job is to become a founder of my own software based company. In the next decade, I'd like to the see the business of software production improved in two ways: firstly the open release of massive data and secondly, the introduction of better software automation/debugging. A big concern I have is the monopolization of data by a few different tech companies and government agencies. The fact that companies are offering consumers free and powerful products in exchange for their data is something that frightens me as time goes on, especially considering we do not know what they are doing with this data. My hope is that there is a movement to release some of this data to the public in an attempt to decentralize advanced AI models as well as regain control of our privacy. The second thing I'd like to see is reducing the amount of bugs by using smart automation/debugging systems. I don't think proprietary software is dying just yet and so with better tools, reducing bugs is good for everyone.    

## OpenCV Updates 
For OpenCV I worked on two more issues. The first issue that I made a pull request about was this [one](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16006). The original poster wanted a quick change to some of the documentation of the calib3d.hpp file, namely a simple typo with the name of a principle used for 3d calibration. The second issue that I worked on was adding a macOS installation guide to the project. The relating issue can be found [here](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/13822) and my pull request can be found [here](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16165). 

For this second issue, I had to do some research and figure out how I could install OpenCV on a mac machine. Luckily for me, for my job at Nielsen, I had just recieved a brand new Macbook Air. I was able to create a rough sketch of an installation guide and I made a pull request. The maintainer replied and wanted some changes, of which I am currently working on. 

The third issue I worked on was adding more information about a feature detector to a documentation page. The issue can be found [here](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/issues/14093) and the relating pull request can be found [here](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/pull/16100). For this issue, I also had to do some more research since I was not familiar with STAR, (a feature detector) or BRIEF(a feature selector). I don't have much knowledge behind computer vision theory, so this was a great way to get my feet wet and get to know some of the underlying components of a computer vision model. 

These are the three issues I worked on for the latter quarter of the semester. I'm happy that I was able to make pull requests to three out of the four issues that I mentioned a few weeks ago. I'm still currently looking into whether or not the 4th issue (a coding issue), is something I can do before I present my project. I'll leave it as a suprise. 

## Wikipedia Edits 
I also finished my last wikipedia edit for the semester. I'm an avid fan of classical music, espcially of Bach and Glenn Gould's breath-taking interpretations. As I was going through Glenn Gould's wikipedia page, I noticed that there was a missing hyperlink to another pianist Josef Hofmann, who Gould considered to be one of his inspirations. I decided to add this hyperlink to the page and was very happy to have that be my last edit to wikipedia (last as in for this semester!)  
