---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

## Getting My Ears Wet

> In real open source, you have the right to control your own destiny. [- Linus Torvalds](http://old.seattletimes.com/html/businesstechnology/2002059632_linus11.html)

The idea of making contributions is like an arrow of discomfort. The discomfort is sharp, penetrating and increasing as you move closer to making your first contribution. Yet despite this discomfort, I have found the articles by Craig Buchek and Andy Lester to be of great shield. I didn't realize that reporting bugs, answering questions or sending programmers beer were considered contributions. These are more manageable tasks for the beginner (like me). 

For my first foray into open source, I am thinking about making code documentation contributions. A gaping weakness of mine is not being able to quickly grasp the nature of a program. It takes far too long for me to do so and I'd like to be able to do it without much effort. I find reading code and digesting it to be more important than writing code itself. We, as software engineers, are nothing if we cannot add to the legacy code-monuments of our predecessors. In a similar vein, I'd like to try going to more meetups and increase my "bandwidth" of information transfer between myself and seasoned professionals. I usually don't enjoy social gatherings because of their banal nature, but I can find myself enjoying these type of meetups. 

As for projects, I am at a loss as to where to start. I find myself attracted to Vim and VLC, since these are two projects I use almost everyday. But I find it more meaningful to work on projects that are smaller, but penetratingly useful. These software projects are usually more interesting and solve a very specific problem, like this [magnificent project](https://github.com/nvbn/thefuck) and [this one](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh), and [even this one](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf). I don't know if I will be able to make code contributions, but I certainly want to try eventually. The freedom to choose which projects to contribute to and what contributions we want to make is something I find exciting about this course. It's obvious we will first have to learn about contributing through OpenStreetMap and Wikipedia, but I am excited for what's to come.  

I am still an outsider to Open Source, but each day I grow more enriched and enchanted by the subject. There isn't any doubt in my mind that this course is designed to teach us real open source. I've enjoyed the assignments and presentations concerning the history of software very much and I hope to enjoy the fruits of our increasing freedom soon. 

